Pyramid of Pain
Explores Threat hunting, incident response, and SOC analysis

Hash values
MD5 – not secure. Was widely used with a 128-bit hash value but in 2011 it was revealed by the IETF that
SHA-1 (secured hash algorithm 1) invented by NSA in 1995. 160-bit hash string as a 40 digit hexadecimal number. Banned for being vulnerabled to brute force attacks in 2013.
SHA-2 – designed by NIST and NSA in 2001 to replace SHA-1. Many variants but most common is SHA-256, 256-bit with a 64 digit hexadecimal number. 
A hash is not considered secured if two files can have the same hash value or digest. 
Punycode is a way of converting words that cannot be written in ASCII into a univode ASCII encoding. Imagine a fake I, an I without the dot, in adidas. de. The fake adidas with the fake i will redirect to a different DNS. Explorer, Chrome, Edge, and Apple Safari are susceptible to these attacks because their browsers can translate obfuscated characters into the full Punycode domain. 
They’ll also hide malicious websites in URL shortners. Be aware of     
    bit.ly
    goo.gl
    ow.ly
    s.id
    smarturl.it
    tiny.pl
    tinyurl.com
    x.co
You can copy the shortened URL and add a ‘+’ to see where it would extend to. 
Host artifacts are files modified or dropped by the malicious actor. They are the traces or observables from an attack
network artifacts can be detected in Wireshark PCAPs by using a n/w protocol analyzer like TShark (a terminal wireshark) or explored IDS logging from Snort ( snort.org ) 

 
a pcap from wireshark

Let's use TShark to filter out the User-Agent strings by using the following command: 
tshark --Y http.request -T fields -e http.host -e http.user_agent -r analysis_file.pcap 

 

MalwareBazaar and Malshare are good resources to provide samples, malicious feeds, and YARA results which can be used to compare while threat hunting and incident response.
SOC Prime Threat Detection Marketplace have pros share their detection rules for different kinds of threats including the latest CVEs
Fuzzy hasing is a strong weapon that matches twi files with minor differences based on their “fuzzy” hash values. 
	Also known as context triggered piecewise hashes (CTPH)
